

This is the model without the slow potassium current, model 1, described in
the article:  
**Models of respiratory rhythm generation in the pre-Bötzinger complex. I. Bursting pacemaker neurons.**   
Butera RJ Jr, Rinzel J, Smith JC. _J Neurophysiol._ 1999 Jul;82(1):382-97.
Pubmed ID: [10400966](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10400966) , [full
text](http://jn.physiology.org/cgi/content/full/82/1/382) at the _Journal of
Neurophysiology_ .  
**Abstract:**   
A network of oscillatory bursting neurons with excitatory coupling is
hypothesized to define the primary kernel for respiratory rhythm generation in
the pre-Bötzinger complex (pre-BötC) in mammals. Two minimal models of these
neurons are proposed. In model 1, bursting arises via fast activation and slow
inactivation of a persistent Na+ current INaP-h. In model 2, bursting arises
via a fast-activating persistent Na+ current INaP and slow activation of a K+
current IKS. In both models, action potentials are generated via fast Na+ and
K+ currents. The two models have few differences in parameters to facilitate a
rigorous comparison of the two different burst-generating mechanisms. Both
models are consistent with many of the dynamic features of
electrophysiological recordings from pre-BötC oscillatory bursting neurons in
vitro, including voltage-dependent activity modes (silence, bursting, and
beating), a voltage-dependent burst frequency that can vary from 0.05 to > 1
Hz, and a decaying spike frequency during bursting. These results are robust
and persist across a wide range of parameter values for both models. However,
the dynamics of model 1 are more consistent with experimental data in that the
burst duration decreases as the baseline membrane potential is depolarized and
the model has a relatively flat membrane potential trajectory during the
interburst interval. We propose several experimental tests to demonstrate the
validity of either model and to differentiate between the two mechanisms.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Butera, Rinzel, Smith, 1999 version 05**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/butera_rinzel_smith_1999_version05)  
The original CellML model was created and curated by:  
**Catherine May Lloyd**   
c.lloyd(at)auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland, Bioengineering Institute

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

